README.md, before:

# WikiTeq Cron Docker Image

<div align="center">
  <img src="WikiTeq-docker-cron.webp" alt="WikiTeq Cron Mascot" width="300">
</div>

This is a Docker-based job scheduler that allows you to define and run cron jobs in Docker containers. It uses [Supercronic](https://github.com/aptible/supercronic) as the job runner to provide a flexible, reliable, and easy-to-configure cron experience.

## Key Features
- **Cron-Like Syntax**: Define and schedule tasks using familiar cron syntax.
- **Flexible Filtering**: Supports filtering containers based on `COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME`, space-separated filters in the `FILTER` variable, or both.
- **Easy Configuration**: Define all your jobs using Docker labels, making configuration straightforward.
- **Logging**: Provides logging for all job executions, making monitoring and debugging simple.

## Getting Started

To start using this Docker image, you can create a `docker-compose.yml` configuration as shown in the example below.

### Example `docker-compose.yml`
```yaml
services:
  cron:
    image: ghcr.io/wikiteq/cron
    volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro
      - ./logs/cron:/var/log/cron
    environment:
      - COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=${COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME}
      - FILTER="label=cron.extra_label=one label=com.docker.compose.project=my_project"
      - DEBUG=${CRON_DEBUG:-0}
      - TZ=America/New_York

  app:
    build: ./app
    container_name: app
    labels:
      cron.enabled: true
      cron.mytask.schedule: "* * * * *"
      cron.mytask.command: "/usr/local/bin/app_script.sh"
      cron.another_task.schedule: "*/2 * * * *"
      cron.another_task.command: "/usr/local/bin/another_app_script.sh"
```
This example shows how to schedule multiple cron jobs using cron syntax. The Docker container will run `/usr/local/bin/app_script.sh` every minute and `/usr/local/bin/another_app_script.sh` every two minutes, with logs stored in `/var/log/cron/`.

> **Note:** Ensure to mount the Docker socket (read-only mode) in your `docker-compose.yml` file to allow for proper interaction with Docker.

### Environment Variables
- **`COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME`**: Specifies the name of the Docker Compose project, allowing the cron to target jobs in that specific project. **Optional** if the `FILTER` variable is defined.
- **`FILTER`**: Allows space-separated filters for fine-grained control over the container jobs. Example: `FILTER="label=cron.extra_label=one label=com.docker.compose.project=my_project"`. Can be used independently or in combination with `COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME`.
- **`DEBUG`**: Set to `true` to enable detailed output for debugging purposes.
- **`CRON_LOG_DIR`**: Defines the directory where cron stores log files for executed jobs, defaulting to `/var/log/cron`.
- **`TZ`**: The timezone used for scheduling cron jobs.

> **Tip:** Use the `FILTER` variable when you need additional control over the filtering beyond the `COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME`.

### Volume Mounts
- **`/var/run/docker.sock`**: This is used to enable the Docker client inside the container to communicate with the Docker daemon running on the host. Be careful when using this as it provides elevated privileges.
- **`./logs/cron:/var/log/cron`**: Mount a directory to store the cron logs.

## Supercronic Integration

This image uses [Supercronic](https://github.com/aptible/supercronic) to run cron jobs in a more Docker-friendly way. Supercronic provides better logging, fewer overheads, and can be easily integrated with Docker containers, making it a better alternative to the traditional `cron` utility.

## Managing Cron Jobs

The image comes with several scripts to manage cron jobs:

- **`functions.sh`**: Contains helper functions for script operations.
- **`startup.sh`**: This script runs at container startup to initialize all required settings and start cron jobs.
- **`update_cron.sh`**: Used for updating cron jobs dynamically without restarting the container.

## Building and Running the Image

Pre-built Docker images are available for direct use. In the example, we use the latest version of the image: `ghcr.io/wikiteq/cron`. You can find all available images at: [WikiTeq Docker Cron Packages](https://github.com/WikiTeq/docker-cron/pkgs/container/cron).

To build the Docker image, use the following command:

```bash
docker build -t wikiteq/cron .
```
To run the Docker container, use:
```bash
docker run -d --name cron wikiteq/cron
```

Make sure to properly configure environment variables and volume mounts to suit your needs.

## Contributing
If you want to contribute to this project, please feel free to submit a pull request or open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/WikiTeq/docker-cron).

## Future Improvements
- **Non-Root User**: Modify the Dockerfile to run the container as a non-root user to enhance security and reduce potential risks.
- **Automated Testing**: Implement automated unit and integration testing to ensure code reliability and prevent issues during deployment.
- **Health Check Endpoint**: Add a health check mechanism to verify that cron jobs are running correctly and that the container is in a healthy state.

## Contact
For any questions or support, contact the maintainers at contact@wikiteq.com.

Commit message:

Add cron log archiving with time-based grouping
Add comprehensive log archiving functionality that groups cron logs
by time periods and automatically creates archives when thresholds
are reached, preserving recent logs for easy access.

README.md, after:

# WikiTeq Cron Docker Image

<div align="center">
  <img src="WikiTeq-docker-cron.webp" alt="WikiTeq Cron Mascot" width="300">
</div>

This is a Docker-based job scheduler that allows you to define and run cron jobs in Docker containers. It uses [Supercronic](https://github.com/aptible/supercronic) as the job runner to provide a flexible, reliable, and easy-to-configure cron experience.

## Key Features
- **Cron-Like Syntax**: Define and schedule tasks using familiar cron syntax.
- **Flexible Filtering**: Supports filtering containers based on `COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME`, space-separated filters in the `FILTER` variable, or both.
- **Easy Configuration**: Define all your jobs using Docker labels, making configuration straightforward.
- **Logging**: Provides logging for all job executions, making monitoring and debugging simple.
- **Log Archiving**: Includes an archiving utility that compacts older logs into monthly/daily/hourly/minute archives according to completeness, keeping only a configurable number of the newest logs.

## Getting Started

To start using this Docker image, you can create a `docker-compose.yml` configuration as shown in the example below.

### Example `docker-compose.yml`
```yaml
services:
  cron:
    image: ghcr.io/wikiteq/cron
    volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro
      - ./logs/cron:/var/log/cron
    environment:
      - COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=${COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME}
      - FILTER="label=cron.extra_label=one label=com.docker.compose.project=my_project"
      - DEBUG=${CRON_DEBUG:-0}
      - TZ=America/New_York

  app:
    build: ./app
    container_name: app
    labels:
      cron.enabled: true
      cron.mytask.schedule: "* * * * *"
      cron.mytask.command: "/usr/local/bin/app_script.sh"
      cron.another_task.schedule: "*/2 * * * *"
      cron.another_task.command: "/usr/local/bin/another_app_script.sh"
```
This example shows how to schedule multiple cron jobs using cron syntax. The Docker container will run `/usr/local/bin/app_script.sh` every minute and `/usr/local/bin/another_app_script.sh` every two minutes, with logs stored in `/var/log/cron/`.

> **Note:** Ensure to mount the Docker socket (read-only mode) in your `docker-compose.yml` file to allow for proper interaction with Docker.

### Environment Variables
- **`COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME`**: Specifies the name of the Docker Compose project, allowing the cron to target jobs in that specific project. **Optional** if the `FILTER` variable is defined.
- **`FILTER`**: Allows space-separated filters for fine-grained control over the container jobs. Example: `FILTER="label=cron.extra_label=one label=com.docker.compose.project=my_project"`. Can be used independently or in combination with `COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME`.
- **`DEBUG`**: Set to `true` to enable detailed output for debugging purposes.
- **`CRON_LOG_DIR`**: Defines the directory where cron stores log files for executed jobs, defaulting to `/var/log/cron`.
- **`TZ`**: The timezone used for scheduling cron jobs.

> **Tip:** Use the `FILTER` variable when you need additional control over the filtering beyond the `COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME`.

### Volume Mounts
- **`/var/run/docker.sock`**: This is used to enable the Docker client inside the container to communicate with the Docker daemon running on the host. Be careful when using this as it provides elevated privileges.
- **`./logs/cron:/var/log/cron`**: Mount a directory to store the cron logs.

## Log Archiving

The image ships with `archive-cron-logs`, a log archiving script designed for the timestamped log files produced by this image.

- **Invocation**: `archive-cron-logs <target_count>` where `target_count` is the desired number of log files per period (granularity) to trigger creating an archive. Example: `archive-cron-logs 20`.
  - The script processes logs from oldest to newest and groups them by time periods (year, month, day, hour, minute, second).
  - When the current period accumulates `target_count` files, an archive for that period is created, and those files are removed.
  - Additional archives for adjacent periods are created so archived ranges do not intersect the active period.
- **Recent logs preservation**: The script skips the newest `target_count` log files to keep the latest logs easy to read.
- **Naming**: When all files in a group belong to the same task, the task name is appended to the archive name as shown above.

You can schedule archiving via container labels, for example in `docker-compose`:

```yaml
labels:
  - cron.enabled=true
  - cron.rotate_cron_logs.schedule=@daily
  - cron.rotate_cron_logs.command=archive-cron-logs 20
```

## Supercronic Integration

This image uses [Supercronic](https://github.com/aptible/supercronic) to run cron jobs in a more Docker-friendly way. Supercronic provides better logging, fewer overheads, and can be easily integrated with Docker containers, making it a better alternative to the traditional `cron` utility.

## Managing Cron Jobs

The image comes with several scripts to manage cron jobs:

- **`functions.sh`**: Contains helper functions for script operations.
- **`startup.sh`**: This script runs at container startup to initialize all required settings and start cron jobs.
- **`update_cron.sh`**: Used for updating cron jobs dynamically without restarting the container.

## Building and Running the Image

Pre-built Docker images are available for direct use. In the example, we use the latest version of the image: `ghcr.io/wikiteq/cron`. You can find all available images at: [WikiTeq Docker Cron Packages](https://github.com/WikiTeq/docker-cron/pkgs/container/cron).

To build the Docker image, use the following command:

```bash
docker build -t wikiteq/cron .
```
To run the Docker container, use:
```bash
docker run -d --name cron wikiteq/cron
```

Make sure to properly configure environment variables and volume mounts to suit your needs.

## Contributing
If you want to contribute to this project, please feel free to submit a pull request or open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/WikiTeq/docker-cron).

## Future Improvements
- **Non-Root User**: Modify the Dockerfile to run the container as a non-root user to enhance security and reduce potential risks.
- **Automated Testing**: Implement automated unit and integration testing to ensure code reliability and prevent issues during deployment.
- **Health Check Endpoint**: Add a health check mechanism to verify that cron jobs are running correctly and that the container is in a healthy state.

## Contact
For any questions or support, contact the maintainers at contact@wikiteq.com.
